Russia's emergencies teams are bracing
themselves for worse to come as forests
and peat fires continue to hold their
grip in many parts of the country what
makes firefighters so worried is that
the relentless heat wave is keeping the
landscape tinder dry and the scorching
temperatures are set to top 40 Celsius
in the next few days RT cyber Venice is
in the south of the Moscow region I'm
around 100 kilometers south of moscow in
the Moscow region and just a few meters
over there in the woods behind me there
are fires raging you can hear the flames
here as I'm standing here you can hear
them crackling you can hear the fires
burning and just a few moments ago he
went and met to see for ourselves what
was happening because there is an
emergency vehicle in there trying to
contain the flames they were only around
knee height but they did suddenly flare
up over two meters that's the trouble
and that's the problems that the
emergency crews are facing and we even
had to move out the place where we were
broadcasting from because the fire
engine crews they told us it was very
dangerous where we were because you were
off the road and the fights can flare up
at any moment and they could soon sweet
wallows they've had to move and that's
the problem that the emergency crews
face as well as soon as they extinguish
one part of the fire then another part
flares up it's that dry the conditions
here are really very tinder dry and it
just flares up at any instant and as you
can probably see behind me there is very
very thick with smoke as I'm talking to
it's very difficult not to cough in fact
it's so thick I can taste the smoke
there's smokes burning my eyes and it's
actually so thick that I can even look
into the Sun for a number of seconds
directly there aren't any clouds the
smoke wasn't here to be blue sky but its
that thick it's very very great and you
can and it's forming a sort of veil over
the Sun you can actually stare straight
into the Sun this is one of 17 regions
across the country where fires are still
raging in total the suggestion is from
satellite imagery this morning they're
in there are 800 the fire's still raging
across the country the Emergencies
Ministry has got a hundred and fifty
thousand our workers trying their best
to put out these flames and trying to
contain the fires there are start troops
from the Ministry of Defense and the
interior ministry as well as
firefighters and even volunteers they
yesterday they did succeed in preventing
the flames reaching
three hundred villages and towns across
the country but in some cases the fires
are in fact just out of control they
just Flair up so quickly they're
impossible to contain and that's meant
that in the last seven days 48 people
have died as a result of these fires and
also two thousand or so homes have been
destroyed and the people have lost all
their belongings and for more on that it
can i watch a report by my colleague
timofei classic when darkness dawns
hours ahead of schedule although it's
already been five days since fires
incinerated this village ash clouds are
still so thick they block out the Sun
firemen continue to keep patrol as yet
more flames break out but for eager to
darien their efforts don't matter
anymore doors put it off my daughter ran
up and said a bus is waiting and
everyone's being evacuated we already
had our bags packed my wife walks around
the cattle with a religious icon asking
for protection but even the bonds have
vanished a wall of flames up to 300
metres wide was more than the firemen
could handle all but a few of the 100
houses were totally destroyed everything
Iger had built up in 30 years living
here the family home their daughter's
house their cattle even their dogs all
lost to the flames but amidst the scenes
of utter destruction a glimpse of hope
just 15 kilometers away another village
lays in the path of the flames its
people are worried the same fate awaits
them moist ETS problems dispersion saw
him you're on our own the men have dug a
ditch for the chapters smoke is
everywhere we don't know way to expect
the fire from nobody's informing us
about anything but for those whose
battle with the fires ended in defeat
temporary shelters are being found part
of the evacuated were taken here into an
old school building they say aid is
received as often as four times a day
although that's still not enough the
most basic things are much needed from
underwear to pillows to warm clothes
back in Moscow volunteers assemble what
help they can they say there's enough
supplies the problem is delivering it
huge problems with transportation
because we don't have cars of our own
but with flames already appearing on the
highway halfway to the villages finding
a car could prove a lot easier than
actually getting there to a fake cross
souk RT central Russia early this
morning is visibility was down to around
15 meters even looking up at the tall
buildings which even aren't that tall
compared to other cities you couldn't
even see the tops of the smoke was
really that thick but it got from went
from bad to worse driving out here 100
kilometers south of the city it really
did get thicker even as the day went on
the Sun rose up still even got darker
almost cars are driving on with their
headlights visibility was that poor
actually and you would not have no idea
is actually just past midday here it's
that dark and gloomy here it's more like
da score early dawn is very very strange
and it seems that it could be going from
bad to worse as well this weekend
because in the situation in the areas
worst hit high high temperatures around
40 degrees Celsius are forecast this
weekend so doesn't seem to be any let up
on the wildfire because they forecast
the emergencies Minister Sergei shoigu
says they could potentially have far
more wildfires this weekend as well and
muscovites have been warned by health
experts to wear a protective masks
across their nose and mouth to prevent
them breathing in the smoke because you
can actually taste it is that
beacon is a horrible acrid smell and
taste and it's very very bad for you the
pollution in Moscow the health experts
are saying at seven times seven times
higher than normal so it's very very bad
key and if you spend more than one or
two hours outside at a time it's the
equivalent of smoking two packs of
cigarettes and just being outside here
talking to you in the last five minutes
my voice has become very very hoarse
from all the smoke in the air